.TH "hackrf_transfer" 1 "2013.07.1" HACKRF "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hackrf_transfer \- file based transmit and receive sdr
.SH DESCRIPTION
The HackRF project started by Michael Ossmann and Jared Boone to build
software radio peripheral using Free Software and Free Hardware
design. Care was taken to only use electronic components with
published documentation (no NDAs!) and to avoid software libraries
without open source licenses.
.LP
Jawbreaker is the first complete HackRF platform, a wideband software radio
transceiver with a USB interface.
.LP
This application lets the user receive data from RF and transmit
data to RF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  hackrf_transfer [OPTIONS]
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-r <filename> # Receive data into file."
.IP "-t <filename> # Transmit data from file."
.IP "-w # Receive data into file with WAV header and automatic name."
.IP " # This is for SDR# compatibility and may not work with other software."
.IP "[-f set_freq_hz] # Set Freq in Hz"
.IP "[-a set_amp] # Set Amp 1=Enable, 0=Disable."
.IP "[-l gain_db] # Set lna gain, 0-40dB, 8dB steps"
.IP "[-i gain_db] # Set vga(if) gain, 0-62dB, 2dB steps"
.IP "[-x gain_db] # Set TX vga gain, 0-47dB, 1dB steps"
.IP "[-s sample_rate_hz] # Set sample rate in Hz (8/10/12.5/16/20MHz)"
.IP "[-n num_samples] # Number of samples to transfer (default is unlimited)."
.IP "[-b baseband_filter_bw_hz] # Set baseband filter bandwidth in MHz."
 Possible values:
 1.75/2.5/3.5/5/5.5/6/7/8/9/10/12/14/15/20/24/28MHz,
 default < sample_rate_hz.
.SH SEE ALSO
Great Scott Gadgets HackRF web page:
.B http://greatscottgadgets.com/hackrf/
.LP
Other hackrf programs:
.sp
hackrf_cpldjtag(1), hackrf_debug(1), hackrf_info(1), hackrf_spiflash(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Maitland Bottoms
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013 A. Maitland Bottoms <bottoms@debian.org>
.LP
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.LP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
